CHAPTERS SEVEN AND EIGHT
OF THE GOSPEL OF MARK
THIS IS A LIBROVOX RECORDING
ALL LIBROVOX RECORDINGS ARE IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN
FOR MORE INFORMATION
OR TO VOLUNTEER
PLEASE VISIT LIBROVOX DOT ORG
RECORDING BY SIMON
WAYNE WRIGHT
THE GOSPEL OF MARK
CHAPTER SEVEN
Then came together unto him the Pharisees
and certain of the scribes, which came from Jerusalem.
And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread
with defiled, that is to say, with unwashing hands,
they found fault.
For the Pharisees and all the Jews,
except they wash their hands oft,
eat not, holding the traditions of the elders.
And when they come from the market, except they wash,
they eat not, and many other things there be,
which they have received, to hold as the washing of cups
and pots, brazen vessels and of tables.
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him,
Why walk not thy disciples according
to the traditions of the elders,
but eat bread with unwashing hands?
He answered and said unto them,
Well, Hathisias prophesied of you hypocrites,
as it is written, this people honoreth me with their lips,
but their hearts are far from me.
Howbeit in vain do they worship me,
teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.
For laying aside the commandment of God,
ye hold the tradition of men as the washing of pots
and cups, and many other such like things ye do.
And he said unto them, full well,
ye reject the commandment of God,
that ye may keep your own tradition.
For Moses said, honor thy father and thy mother,
and whoso curseth, father or mother,
and let him die the death.
But ye say, if a man shall say to his father or mother,
it is Corbin, that is to say a gift,
by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me,
he shall be free.
And ye suffer him no more to do art for his father
or his mother, making the word of God of non-effect
through your tradition, which ye have delivered,
and many such like things do ye.
And when he had called all the people unto him,
he said unto them, hearken unto me,
every one of you, and understand,
there is nothing from without a man
that entering into him can defile him.
But the things which come out of him,
those are they that defile the man.
If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he was entered into the house from the people,
his disciples asked him concerning the parable,
and he sayeth unto them, are ye so without understanding also?
Do ye not perceive that whatsoever thing from without
entereth into the man, it cannot defile him,
because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly,
and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats.
And he said, that which cometh out of the man,
that defileth the man, for from within,
out of the heart of men proceed evil thoughts,
adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts,
covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness,
an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness,
all these evil things come from within and defile the man.
And from thence he arose and went into the borders of Tyre
and Sedan, and entered into in house,
and would have no man know it, but he could not behead.
For a certain woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit
heard of him and came and fell at his feet.
The woman was a Greek, a Syriac Phoenician by nation,
and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil
out of her daughter.
But Jesus said unto her, let the children first be filled,
for it is not me to take the children's bread
and to cast it unto the dogs.
And she answered and said unto him, yes, Lord,
yet the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.
And he said unto her, for this saying, go thy way,
the devil is gone out of thy daughter.
And when she was come to her house,
she found the devil gone out,
and her daughter laid upon the bed.
And again, departing from the coast of Tyre and Sedan,
he came unto the sea of Galilee
through the midst of the coast of Decapolis.
And they bring unto him one that was deaf
and had an impediment in his speech,
and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.
And he took him aside from the multitude
and put his fingers into his ears,
and he spat and touched his tongue.
And looking up to heaven, he sighed,
and saith unto him, ifah, father, that is, be opened.
And straightway his ears were opened,
and the string of his tongue was loosed,
and he spake plain.
And he charged them that they should tell no man,
but the more he charged them so much,
the more a great deal they published it.
And were beyond measure astonished,
saying he hath done all things well,
he maketh both the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak.
Chapter eight.
In those days the multitude,
being very great and having nothing to eat,
Jesus called his disciples unto him,
and saith unto them, I have compassion on the multitude,
because they have now been with me three days,
and have nothing to eat.
And if I send them away fasting to their own houses,
they will faint by the way,
for divers of them came from far.
And his disciples answered him, from whence?
Can a man satisfy these men with bread here
in the wilderness?
And he asked them, how many loaves have ye?
And they said, seven.
And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground,
and he took the seven loaves and gave thanks and break,
and gave to his disciples to set before them.
And they did set them before the people,
and they had a few small fish,
and he blessed and commanded to set them also before them.
So they did eat and were filled,
and they took up of the broken meat
that was left seven baskets.
And they that had eaten were about 4,000,
and he sent them away.
And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples,
and came into the parts of Doumanutha.
And the Pharisees came forth and began to question with him,
seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him.
And he sighed deeply in his spirit and saith,
why doth this generation seek after a sign?
Verily I say unto you, there shall no sign be given
unto this generation.
And he left them, and entering into the ship again,
departed to the other side.
Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread,
neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf.
And he charged them saying, take heed,
beware of the leaven of the Pharisees
and of the leaven of Herod.
And they reasoned among themselves saying,
it is because we have no bread.
And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them,
why reason ye because ye have no bread?
Perceive ye not yet, neither understand?
Have ye your heart yet hardened?
Having eyes, see ye not?
And having ears, hear ye not?
And do ye not remember when I break the five loaves
among 5,000, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up?
They say unto him, 12.
And when the seven among 4,000,
how many baskets full of fragments took ye up?
And they said, seven.
And he said unto them, how is it that ye do not understand?
And he cometh to Bethesda,
and they bring a blind man unto him
and besought him to touch him.
And he took the blind man by the hand
and led him out of the town.
And when he had spit on his eyes
and put his hands upon him,
he asked him if he saw art.
And he looked up and said,
I see men as trees walking.
After that, he put his hands again upon his eyes
and made him look up.
He was restored and saw every man clearly.
And he sent him away to his house,
saying, neither go into the town
nor tell it to anyone in the town.
And Jesus went out and his disciples
into the towns of Caesarea Philippi.
And by the way, he asked his disciples,
saying unto them, whom do men say that I am?
And they answered, John the Baptist.
But some say Elias, others one of the prophets.
And he sayeth unto them,
but whom say ye that I am?
And Peter answereth and sayeth unto him,
thou art the Christ.
And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.
And he began to teach them
that the son of man must suffer many things
and be rejected of the elders
and of the chief priests and scribes and be killed.
And after three days rise again.
And he spake that saying openly.
And Peter took him and began to rebuke him.
But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples,
he rebuked Peter, saying, get thee behind me, Satan.
For thou savoreth not the things of God,
but the things that be of men.
And when he had called the people unto him
with his disciples also, he said unto them,
whosoever will come after me,
let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it.
But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake
in the gospels, the same shall save it.
For what profit it a man if he shall gain the whole world
and lose his own soul?
Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me
and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation
of him also shall the son of man be ashamed
when he cometh in the glory of his father
with the holy angels.
End of chapter seven and eight of the gospel of Mark.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.